I'm now logged back in as the admin user.
If you haven't already do the same in this lecture we're going to talk about taxonomy as taxonomy is
is a very simple concept to understand.
But under the hood it's very complex a taxonomy is just a word or phrase that is associated with the
post.
WordPress provides two built in taxonomy is called tags and categories.
If you think about it those two taxonomy is make it easier to group posts together.
For example if you owned a music site and you wanted to assign a post to the genre rock then you would
use the category.
By doing this you could filter posts associated with certain genres in the resource section of this
lecture I provide a link to learn more about taxonomy is taxonomy as can make it easier to manage and
filter posts.
The concept behind taxonomy is is very simple but WordPress does a lot of work behind the scenes to
better understand how much WordPress is doing.
Let's take a look at a database diagram.
WordPress creates three tables just for managing taxonomy is let's break down each table WP underscore
terms stores all of your taxonomy terms WP underscore term underscore taxonomy defines what taxonomy
each term belongs to WP underscore term underscore relationships a cross reference table that joins
taxonomy terms with your content.
Each of these tables play a significant role when it comes to taxonomy is to show you how complex things
can get.
Here is what a sequel query might look like when you want to grab all the posts and their taxonomy is
as you can see.
You have to make a lot of joints just to grab something so simple.
Luckily you don't have to deal with this kind of stuff as WordPress has a lot of built in functions
that will handle all this workload for you.
An example would be the WP query class.
This class has quite a few options for grabbing posts with taxonomy as if you can recall we grabbed
posts related to a single post based on a category and displayed them right below the content.
This is an example of us using a taxonomy.
It's even easy to create our own taxonomy.
Let's do that now for our recipes.
I want to create a taxonomy for the origin of a recipe.
Many recipes can come from Italy or France or any other country you can think of.
So it would be a good idea to use a taxonomy to group recipes together based on their origin to register
a taxonomy.
You have to use the function register taxonomy.
This function must be called Inside the init hook but we already have something like that.
So let's open the init up BHP file now right after creating the post type.
Let's call this function this function has three parameters.
The first parameter is the name of this taxonomy in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to this function.
If you scroll down to the list of parameters you'll find that WordPress provides some information about
this parameter.
The name of the taxonomy names should only contain lowercase letters and the underscore character and
not be more than thirty two characters long.
Let's keep it simple and name this taxonomy origin.
The second parameter is what post type will this taxonomy be associated with.
I want this taxonomy to only belong to the recipe post type.
So pass that in like so the last parameter is an array of arguments.
We can set.
If you look at the documentation you'll notice we can set a number of things.
Let's pass in an array.
There are only three things I'm going to set a lot of the default settings are fine the way they are.
I want to set the label to Origin.
I'll make this string translatable.
The next thing I want to set is the rewrite rule.
I want the slug to be origin
the last thing I want to set is the show in rest option.
This should be true.
This is important to set.
If you're using Gutenberg the Gutenberg editor uses an API called the rest api.
This is an API.
We haven't been able to go over in depth.
It basically allows WordPress to update the database through requests.
We'll explore the rest api in a later lecture.
Just know for now that it's necessary for custom taxonomy to work in the Gutenberg editor.
These are the only things I want to set save your changes and navigate to the admin dashboard.
Right under the recipes manual you'll find a new sub menu called origin click on this and you'll find
that WordPress generates a UI for you to manage these taxonomy as if you were to create a new recipe
or edit an existing one.
You'll find a panel on the sidebar that lets you manage the origin taxonomy for this particular post.
As you can see WordPress does a lot under the hood for you already when it comes to taxonomy is.